Iran backed houthis in Yemen say they
fired multiple missiles at Israel's
Resort city of Viet that pronouncement
came just hours after Israel's military
said it had shut down a missile from
Yemen before it crossed into Israeli
territory the latest breast of violence
between the distant enemies has led to
deaths in both countries and fears of
escalation in Tel Aviv Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu oversees air
strike on the hoofy stronghold of
Heda sometime later fighter jets bomb
oil depos and a power plant in the
strategically important port city on the
Red
Sea the Ministry of Health in sah says
dozens were wounded in Raging fires
triggered by the air strikes many of
them admitted to hospital with severe
burns we were sitting and suddenly the
air strike happened there were several
strikes the recent escalation comes
against the backdrop of a severe
humanitarian crisis in Yemen that has
left around eight out of 10 people
dependent on humanitarian Aid according
to the UN about 80% of that Aid and 70%
of All Imports enter through
Huda this Israeli assault has further
depleted our fuel and essential supplies
needed by the citizens and the
People Israel says it hit the port
because the areas used to deliver AR
Iran arms to Yemen and in response to
months of aggression against Israel
including a deadly drone attack on a
residential building in Tel Aviv on
[Music]
Friday I have a message for Israel's
enemies make no mistake we will defend
ourselves by all means on all fronts
anyone who harms us will pay a very
heavy price for their
aggression and race recent months Iran
boui militants have repeatedly attacked
ships passing through the Red Sea in a
stated attempt to force an end to
Israel's military campaign in
Gaza they have also launched missiles
and drones directly at Israel but most
of those projectiles were intercepted
until
Friday in Yemen's capital A houthi
spokesman said his forces wouldn't be
deterred by Israel's
threat the yemeni Armed Forces also
affirm that the response to the Israeli
aggression on our country is inevitable
and will be great and mighty Allah
willing no empty words on Sunday the
Israeli military said it intercepted a
missile fire towards the resort town of
elat one of multiple drones and
ballistic missiles hthi militants
declared they fired at Israeli Targets
in and along the Red
Sea special correspondent EA Ibrahim has
been following events from
Jerusalem they're certainly concerning
for uh the region uh I mean this we're
now seeing a sort of tit fortat strike
uh um countering another strike between
Israel and the houthis in in Yemen and
this adds another layer of tension and
escalation to the situation in the
country N9 months of the war in Gaza and
of course the ongoing clashes between
Israel and Hezbollah the Israeli
Northern uh border so this just adds
another layer of uh instability
uncertainty although it is too early to
tell uh what the end of these strikes uh
could be if it will lead to more
escalation or if in fact the huis may be
deterred by uh the most recent Israeli
strike on that port in in Yemen right
there's a lot happening today Israel's
military is starting to draft Ultra
Orthodox men this is because of a
landmark supreme court order it's a very
sensitive issue in Israel how much of a
threat is this for prime minister bamin
Netanyahu and his
government it could be quite threatening
for his governing Coalition uh his
Coalition Partners uh come from the
ultra Orthodox uh uh political parties
in Israel and they of course the uh
Benjamin netanyahu's uh Partners
vehemently reject this uh Court uh uh
ruling so if they bolt out of that
Coalition that could lead to the
collapse of uh his government at a time
where his popularity is already at an
alltime uh low because of uh the war and
the fact that there are still hostages
held uh uh in in in Gaza uh and so this
could you know spell trouble for
Benjamin netanyahu's governing Coalition
although we'll have to wait and see uh
how this plays out in the coming days
right um more on that Netanyahu is also
Al facing additional pressure inside
Israel protesters filled the street in
Tel Aviv again demanding a deal to
return the remaining hostages how's all
this playing out ahead of a trip to the
US next
week well the United States is Israel's
biggest Ally and the protesters that hit
the streets in Tel elsewhere every uh
week they're acutely aware of that so uh
they are often in these protests calling
directly on the US government to apply
more pressure on Hamas and Israel to
reach a deal and so even though these
protests happen on a weekly basis since
the War Began uh PE families of hostages
but also uh Israelis from all walks of
life taken to the streets demanding a
deal we can expect that they will have a
heightened tone as uh the Prime Minister
visits uh the United States because it's
been 9 months and there are many many
families that are still waiting for for
their loved ones to come back alive or
dead right special correspondent AI
ibraim in Jerusalem thank you